From:	Timlin, Dennis
Sent:	Monday, April 29, 2013 3:07 PM
To:	'Soo-Hyung Kim'
Cc:	Fleisher, David
Subject:	create files for 2dsoil program
Attachments:	BrandtSiCl.dat; AuroraLayer.dat; Run_dat generator.sas; Generate weather 
files for bssg workshop.sas; ModelOutputTo SAS tables - store macro.sas; 
ModelOutputToSAS Batch .sas; modelOutput To Sas tables batch for leaf 
files.sas; modelOutput To Sas tables batch for water files.sas

The source code for create files solution is in the plantmodel database. There 
are three projects (under one solution), CreateSoils the C# overall interface, 
GridGen, the fortran program to generate the gird with info passed from the C# 
program, and Rosetta, a Cpp program to generate soil properties from texture. 
This program runs on a command line and does not interact with CreateSoils in 
terms of passing information.  You need these files for input (file names are 
not fixed):

 

Run.dat 

Layer.dat 

Mysoil.soi

 

Thus you need a runfile to use this program.

 

You pass them on the command  line:

C:\>createSoils run.dat layer.dat

 

The run.dat and layer.dat can have any name

 

Your runfile.dat file  will refer to a soil file  as mysoil.dat. The 
createsoils program will then look for an input (with texture info) file 
called mysoil.soi. the actual file name is arbitrary, but you must have the 
‘soi’ extension for the soil input file. That is why it is given above. There 
probably is a more straightforward method to do this so I am open to 
suggestions.

 

I have attached two files:

BrandtSiCl.soi

AuroraLayer.dat

 

The first (BrandtSiCl.soi) contains the soil properties – sand silt clay bd om

The second (AurorLayer) contains the layer properties. See the header. You 
don’t have to change the datagen2.dat file name. This is a temporary file 
needed by the fortran grid generator program. If you already have a grid file 
and you just want to change the layering or soil properties. This has not been 
implemented yet, but will be (I have to learn again how to pass a string in an 
argument list to the dll, I could do it before but have forgetten). 

 

The project called Rosetta (I added this to CreateSoils solution) exists on a 
different folder in my computer (as a separate project). I link to it in my 
solution. Hopefully it will extract the files when you pull the project from 
source safe. It is actually in another folder than the other create files 
solution. If you have problems retrieving it, I can help.  The process should 
be transparent. 

 

The runfile as input tells the program where to write the nodal files (*.nod, 
*.grd) except the element file. The element file needs initial root wt added 
to it.  You will find this file, called ‘element.elm’ in the default folder 
from where you run CreateSoils. I usually distribute test amounts and make 
sure the sum adds to something reasonable – run the model till emergence and 
look into the g01 file to see total root weight.  There are several approaches 
to do this better: 1) use a polynomial to generate root density with depth, 2) 
hard code it into the grid file generator (Annette did this) or 3 generate 
root density from germination. 

 

I want to do 3 but need time to implement it. I tried to have Annette do it 
but she found it too confusing/difficult. I think she could have done it but 
did not want to.  We did generate an initial root weight. I just have to start 
root growth at germination, it is not too hard. 

 

There is an output file ‘output’ that is generated but this is not used in 
maizsim. 

 

I will look through what David sent and see if I can put all this together 
better.

 

I’ve also attached some sas files I used to generate the run and weather 
files. There are a number of tricks you can do with SAS depending on how many 
levels of variations you have in the data. &loc and &name refer to folder 
names. You can see how it turned out in my maizsim07\bsg-2013 folder. 

 

I read the sas data using macros. I have generic macros that work with all 
simulations (model output to sas tables – store macro). I store the macro so I 
don’t have to rerun them everytime I launch sas.  The batch files vary by 
simulation. The idea is to find the run files and then parse them for the 
locations of the output and grid files. The grid file is used to set up 
layers.  I don’t generally read the leaf and soil and root files as there is a 
lot of data. I set up separate programs for them, if I need them. 

 

The reading weather sas program also depends on the source of the data. The 
code to write the maizsim weather file is the same. 

 

This is probably confusing as hell. I have to do it once a month to remember 
what to do. Writing this helps to formalize a manua.

 

Dennis

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

--------------------------------------
Dennis Timlin

Soil Scientist
USDA-ARS Crop Systems and Global Change Laboratory
Bldg 001, Rm 342 BARC-W
10300 Baltimore Ave
Beltsville, MD 20705
301-504-6255
fax 301-504-5823
Dennis.Timlin@ars.usda.gov
http://www.ars.usda.gov/ba/csgcl

 

 

